[docs] Custom indexer (#22995)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/concepts/custom-indexing-framework.mdx

---
title: Custom Indexing Framework
description: The `sui-indexer-alt-framework` is a powerful Rust framework for building high-performance, custom blockchain indexers on Sui, providing customizable, production-ready components for data ingestion, processing, and storage.
---

> Sui's blockchain generates rich, complex data - transactions, events, object changes, and more. While Sui provides standard APIs to access this data, many applications need customized data processing: tracking specific events, aggregating analytics, building dashboards, or creating specialized databases for their use cases.

Author: I like it. I always prefer fewer words over more.

The `sui-indexer-alt-framework` is a powerful Rust framework for building high-performance, custom blockchain indexers on Sui. It provides production-ready components for data ingestion, processing, and storage while giving you full control over your indexing logic.

A custom indexer solves this by letting you extract, transform, and store exactly the blockchain data you need. Instead of querying Sui APIs repeatedly or building complex filtering logic, you process the raw blockchain data once and store it in your preferred format.

Leveraging the custom indexing framework is necessary for projects that track DEX trading volumes, monitor NFT collection activity, build analytics dashboards, create specialized search indexes, aggregate cross-chain bridge data, and many more use cases.

## Framework architecture

At a high level, the indexing framework is a streaming pipeline that continuously polls for the latest available checkpoints from a pre-defined data source and streams that checkpoint data to your pipeline's processing logic.

> What are checkpoints? Sui organizes blockchain data into checkpoints - batches of transactions that represent consistent blockchain state snapshots. Each checkpoint contains complete transaction details, events, object changes, and execution results with guaranteed ordering. See [Life of a Transaction](./sui-architecture/transaction-lifecycle.mdx#checkpoints) for more information on checkpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checkpoints on Sui are batches of transactions that represent consistent blockchain state snapshots. Each checkpoint contains complete transaction details, events, object changes, and execution results with guaranteed ordering. See [Life of a Transaction](./sui-architecture/transaction-lifecycle.mdx#checkpoints) for more information on checkpoints.
```

![Overview](./custom-indexer/images/overview.png)

## Detailed architecture

The following diagram details the custom indexer architecture.

![Custom indexer architecture](./custom-indexer/images/architecture.png)

### Data sources

> The data sources are where checkpoint data comes from. The framework supports multiple data sources to maximize flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checkpoint data comes from various data sources, including:
```

> - **Remote stores** connect to public checkpoint stores like [`https://checkpoints.mainnet.sui.io`](https://checkpoints.mainnet.sui.io/) - the most straightforward way to get started without running your own infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Remote stores** connect to public checkpoint stores like [`https://checkpoints.mainnet.sui.io`](https://checkpoints.mainnet.sui.io/). This is the most straightforward way to get started without running your own infrastructure.
```

- **Local files** allow you to process checkpoint files dumped by a local Sui Full node, providing the lowest latency, but should be used for testing only as these files are not automatically cleaned up.

> - **RPC endpoint** enables direct connection to a Sui Full node RPC endpoint, allowing you to use a trusted data source that you control or to connect to networks (like Devnet) that lack a remote store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **RPC endpoints** enable direct connection to a Sui Full node RPC endpoint, allowing you to use a trusted data source that you control or to connect to networks (like Devnet) that lack a remote store.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The indexing framework supports multiple data sources to maximize flexibility.
```

{/*→ Different data source configurations are covered in the section [Checkpoint Data Sources](https://www.notion.so/Checkpoint-Data-Sources-2336d9dcb4e980ffa5c7eabb07958007?pvs=21)*/} 

### Ingestion layer

> The framework manages the ingestion layer, which handles the complex task of reliably fetching and distributing checkpoint data. The `Broadcaster` receives checkpoints from data sources and efficiently distributes them to multiple processing pipelines running in parallel - essential for indexers that run multiple different data processing workflows simultaneously. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The indexing framework manages the ingestion layer, which handles the complex task of reliably fetching and distributing checkpoint data. The `Broadcaster` receives checkpoints from data sources and efficiently distributes them to multiple processing pipelines running in parallel. This is essential for indexers that run multiple different data processing workflows simultaneously. 
```

The `Regulator` acts as a smart coordinator, controlling data flow rates by directing the `Broadcaster` on which checkpoints to fetch. It's backpressured by the high watermarks reported by subscribers, so that the `Broadcaster` doesn't fetch too many.

### Processing layer

> Both the framework and your code manages the processing layer, which is where your custom logic integrates with the framework. The pipeline framework components are the heart of the system as they orchestrate checkpoint processing, manage concurrency to maximize throughput, maintain watermarks to track progress and ensure data consistency, and coordinate the entire data flow from ingestion to storage. The framework components adapt based on your chosen pipeline type: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the indexing framework and your code manage the processing layer, which is where your custom logic integrates with the framework. The pipeline framework components are the heart of the system, as they orchestrate checkpoint processing, manage concurrency to maximize throughput, maintain watermarks to track progress and ensure data consistency, and coordinate the entire data flow from ingestion to storage. The framework components adapt based on your chosen pipeline type: 
```

The framework then exposes specific interfaces that you implement to define your data processing logic. Some common APIs include:

- `process()`: Transform raw checkpoint data (transactions, events, object changes) into your desired database rows. This is where you extract meaningful information, filter relevant data, and format it for storage.
{@inject: crates/sui-types/src/full_checkpoint_content.rs#struct=CheckpointData}
    [https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-types/src/full_checkpoint_content.rs#L19-L23](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/#L19-L23)
    
- `commit()`: Store your processed data to the database with proper transaction handling. The framework calls this with batches of processed data for efficient bulk operations.
- `prune()`: Clean up old data based on your retention policies (optional). Useful for managing database size by removing outdated records while preserving recent data.

Sequential and concurrent pipeline types and their trade-offs are detailed in [Pipeline Architecture](./custom-indexer/pipeline-architecture.mdx).

### Storage layer

> The framework abstracts database operations through a flexible storage layer. PostgreSQL comes with built-in support using Diesel ORM, providing production-ready database operations, connection pooling, migrations, and watermark management out of the box. For custom database implementations, you can implement the framework's storage interfaces to use any database - [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) for document storage, [ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/) for analytics, or any other database that fits your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The indexing framework abstracts database operations through a flexible storage layer. PostgreSQL comes with built-in support using Diesel ORM, providing production-ready database operations, connection pooling, migrations, and watermark management out of the box. For custom database implementations, you can implement the framework's storage interfaces to use any database, for example, [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) for document storage or [ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/) for analytics.
```

The `Regulator` acts as a smart coordinator, controlling data flow rates by directing the `Broadcaster` on which checkpoints to fetch. It's backpressured by the high watermarks reported by subscribers, so that the `Broadcaster` doesn't fetch too many.

### Processing layer

Both the indexing framework and your code manage the processing layer, which is where your custom logic integrates with the framework. The pipeline framework components are the heart of the system, as they orchestrate checkpoint processing, manage concurrency to maximize throughput, maintain watermarks to track progress and ensure data consistency, and coordinate the entire data flow from ingestion to storage. The framework components adapt based on your chosen pipeline type: 

- **Sequential pipelines** use different components optimized for in-order processing with batching capabilities.
- **Concurrent pipelines** use components like `Collector`, `Committer`, and `Pruner` for high-throughput out-of-order processing.

The framework then exposes specific interfaces that you implement to define your data processing logic. Some common APIs include:

> - `process()`: Transform raw checkpoint data (transactions, events, object changes) into your desired database rows. This is where you extract meaningful information, filter relevant data, and format it for storage.

Reviewer: Or, just remove the code example for `process()` since this is the intro page

> - `process()`: Transform raw checkpoint data (transactions, events, object changes) into your desired database rows. This is where you extract meaningful information, filter relevant data, and format it for storage.

Author: The code isn't for commit() but for checkpoint data. Moved it to the end of the list because the formatting was wonky anyway.

---
title: Custom Indexing Framework
description: The `sui-indexer-alt-framework` is a powerful Rust framework for building high-performance, custom blockchain indexers on Sui. It provides customizable, production-ready components for data ingestion, processing, and storage.

> ---

Reviewer: this one could use some keywords too, just for consistency

Sui generates rich, complex data, including transactions, events, object changes, and more. While Sui provides standard APIs to access this data, many applications need customized data processing for workflows such as tracking specific events, aggregating analytics, building dashboards, or creating specialized databases.

> A custom indexer can be used to extract, transform, and store the specific blockchain data you need. Instead of querying Sui APIs repeatedly or building complex filtering logic, you process the raw blockchain data once and store it in your preferred format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A custom indexer can be used to extract, transform, and store the specific blockchain data you need. Instead of querying Sui APIs repeatedly or building complex filtering logic, you can process the raw blockchain data once and store it in your preferred format.
```

## Detailed architecture

The following diagram details the custom indexer architecture.

![Custom indexer architecture](./custom-indexer/images/architecture.png)

### Data sources

Checkpoint data comes from various data sources, including:

- **Remote stores** connect to public checkpoint stores like [`https://checkpoints.mainnet.sui.io`](https://checkpoints.mainnet.sui.io/). This is the most straightforward way to get started without running your own infrastructure.
- **Local files** allow you to process checkpoint files dumped by a local Sui Full node, providing the lowest latency, but should be used for testing only as these files are not automatically cleaned up.
- **RPC endpoints** enable direct connection to a Sui Full node RPC endpoint, allowing you to use a trusted data source that you control or to connect to networks (like Devnet) that lack a remote store.
The indexing framework supports multiple data sources to maximize flexibility.
{/*→ Different data source configurations are covered in the section [Checkpoint Data Sources](https://www.notion.so/Checkpoint-Data-Sources-2336d9dcb4e980ffa5c7eabb07958007?pvs=21)*/} 

### Ingestion layer

> The indexing framework manages the ingestion layer, which handles the complex task of reliably fetching and distributing checkpoint data. The `Broadcaster` receives checkpoints from data sources and efficiently distributes them to multiple processing pipelines running in parallel. This is essential for indexers that run multiple different data processing workflows simultaneously. 
> 
> The `Regulator` acts as a smart coordinator, controlling data flow rates by directing the `Broadcaster` on which checkpoints to fetch. It's backpressured by the high watermarks reported by subscribers, so that the `Broadcaster` doesn't fetch too many.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The indexing framework manages the ingestion layer, which handles the complex task of reliably fetching and distributing checkpoint data. The ingestion layer has two components:

1. The `Broadcaster`, which receives checkpoints from data sources and efficiently distributes them to multiple processing pipelines running in parallel. This is essential for indexers that run multiple different data processing workflows simultaneously. 

2. The `Regulator`, which acts as a smart coordinator, controlling data flow rates by directing the `Broadcaster` on which checkpoints to fetch. It's backpressured by the high watermarks reported by subscribers, so that the `Broadcaster` doesn't fetch too many.
```

- **Sequential pipelines** use different components optimized for in-order processing with batching capabilities.
- **Concurrent pipelines** use components like `Collector`, `Committer`, and `Pruner` for high-throughput out-of-order processing.

The framework then exposes specific interfaces that you implement to define your data processing logic. Some common APIs include:

- `process()`: Transform raw checkpoint data (transactions, events, object changes) into your desired database rows. This is where you extract meaningful information, filter relevant data, and format it for storage.
{@inject: crates/sui-types/src/full_checkpoint_content.rs#struct=CheckpointData}
    [https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-types/src/full_checkpoint_content.rs#L19-L23](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/#L19-L23)
    

> - `commit()`: Store your processed data to the database with proper transaction handling. The framework calls this with batches of processed data for efficient bulk operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `commit()`: Store your processed data in the database with proper transaction handling. The framework calls this with batches of processed data for efficient bulk operations.
```
